---
title: "KP3100 Introduction to Chemical Engineering"
collection: teaching
type: "Lecturer and Course Co-ordinator"
permalink: /teaching/2020KP3100
venue: "Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU)"
date: 2020-09-21
location: "Trondheim, Norway"
---

2nd year Undergraduate course.

[Course website](https://www.ntnu.edu/studies/courses/KP3100#tab=omEmnet)

[Handwritten Lecture Notes](http://folk.ntnu.no/dineshk/Lectures/KP3100/)

Video Lectures - Available upon request

Course content
Applied heat and mass transport: applied fluid mechanics, thermodynamic work, heat transport, heat pumps/cooling.
Mechanical separation processes: sedimentation, centrifuges, gas purification, filtration and floatation.
Chemical processes: stirring.
Python will be used for simple problem solving.

Learning outcome
After completing the course, the student will:
- have knowledge about applied heat and mass transfer.
- have knowledge about mechanical separation processes.
- have basic knowledge on process operations.
- be able to gather and process necessary information for computations.
- be able to perform calculations related to process operations.
- be able to understand flow charts and know the symbols of the devices mentioned in the course.
- be able to read technical diagrams such as Moody’s diagram and thermodynamic state diagrams (i.e. p, h- or h, s- diagram)
- be able to make simple sketches of a process for visual communication.
- be able to report process parameters in different units and basis (volume, mass, speed).
- be able to construct and execute simple numerical models.
- be able to use Python for simple numerical modeling.
- be able to conduct simple laboratory experiments and write simple lab reports.

Learning methods and activities
Lectures, exercises and laboratory work with mandatory presence.
Admission to the exam requires that 70% of the exercises are approved. A report must be submitted for the laboratory work.

Lectures: 60 hrs, Exercises: 30 hrs, Laboratory work: 15 hrs, Self-study: 95 hrs

Compulsory assignments
Exercises

Further on evaluation
A final written exam (80%) and the laboratory grading (20%).If there is a re-sit examination, the examination form may change from written to oral. Re-scheduled written exam will be in august.
